Exercise 2.15 points out that a formula to compute with intervals using the library we've been developing will produce tighter error bounds if it can be written in such a form that no variable that represents an uncertain number (an interval) is repeated. The conclusion is that `par2` is a "better" program for parallel resistances than `par1`. We need to explain if this is correct, and why.

First, this is a good time to show that the two formulas used to develop `par1` and `par2` are algebraically equivalent. We're trying to show that

http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_PnLYRqe0k9g/TQ2Xv69ycBI/AAAAAAAAAXE/N_T7IEmWcyg/s1600/Parallel%2BResistance%2B3.png

We'll start with the formula on the right hand side and derive the formula on the left. To do so, all we really need to do is multiply by R1/R1 and R2/R2. Since both of these fractions equal 1, these are valid transformations.

http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_PnLYRqe0k9g/TQ2TWWDdO0I/AAAAAAAAAWs/PqN2Kirp25Q/s1600/Parallel%2BResistance%2B4.png

So the formulas are algebraically equivalent, but they don't give the same answer. Why could that be? The answer lies in the trick we used just now to show equivalence. We used the ratios R1/R1 and R2/R2 to change the formula and said that it was okay because that's just like multiplying by 1. But R1 and R2 represent resistor values, which are intervals, and we saw in exercise 2.14 that dividing an interval by itself doesn't equal 1, it just approximates it. Transforming the equation in this way introduces error. That's why the observation that we can get tighter error bounds if we avoid repeating variables that represent uncertain numbers is correct.



Exercise 2.16 asks us to explain why equivalent algebraic expressions may lead to different answers. It goes on to ask if we can devise an interval-arithmetic package that does not have this shortcoming, or if the task is impossible.

As the text points out, this is a very difficult problem. [Wikipedia to the rescue](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interval_arithmetic#Dependency_problem).



> The so-called dependency problem is a major obstacle to the application of interval arithmetic. Although interval methods can determine the range of elementary arithmetic operations and functions very accurately, this is not always true with more complicated functions. If an interval occurs several times in a calculation using parameters, and each occurrence is taken independently then this can lead to an unwanted expansion of the resulting intervals.
>
> ...
>
> In general, it can be shown that the exact range of values can be achieved, if each variable appears only once. However, not every function can be rewritten this way.

In short, no we cannot design an interval arithmetic package that does not have this shortcoming in the general case. The best we can do, as was indicated in the previous exercise, is to try and write formulas that avoid repeating variables that represent intervals. This is not always possible.